okay okay okay this audio thing
is okay okay all right so what we are
doing is first off we are building a
computer algebra system so we are
building a program where I can do uh
start it I can say like the derivative
of x with respect to X is one I can the
derivative
of x * 2 is equal to 2 so we can do
things like that which is
great
um and so we have this symbolic system
where we can start to do algebra um we
don't have equation solving or anything
like that but the the point that we're
doing is there's a book called new kind
of Science and in this book uh they uh
the author does some very cool stuff
where they simulate cool pictures so our
goal is to try to recreate this and our
system works very similar to how math
Mathematica Works um and now an update
from last time the things that I've
changed one cool thing is this is if
conditionals implemented directly in the
language so this is really
cool so I can do things like you know uh
if s
q plus
or Pi otherwise Say
by
and we get high so 2 plus 2 is equal to
four so we jump to this first argument
otherwise if I put five here we would
get by so that's pretty cool so and this
is all implemented just using the
pattern matcher and there's no special
casing in the kernel needed another cool
thing that we have is you can now do
multi-line I don't know if uh I maybe I
did that on the last stream but one cool
thing is that I added multi-line and
multic command into the rle so now I can
paste this whole thing and it all just
works out nicely so you can now paste in
multiple expressions and the way that
that worked is if we go into the source
code and we look at our parser I added
just one more rule that takes a vector
of expressions and I think I went over
that the only change that we had to make
was in function
run down here all we did was instead of
calling expert and expecting a single
expression we get this result of VC of
expert and so if that's okay P parses
then we just iterate each one that we
got and we evaluate it so that makes it
much more usable because Nas can just
send you a block of code and you can
just paste it into the program so that's
pretty
cool um so there's a bunch of stuff that
we want to do but I think that
um what I want to do right now is just
stay focused on cellular automa because
we definitely want to generate some
pictures because pictures are good for
content and I just really want it
so um we do have a
simple rule
30 thing here so let's say this is
combinators and let's say this is
uh so this is like one step of uh a
cellular atom so I can do rule 30
true false false for example and then I
get whatever that cell would be
the problem is we don't have a join
function where uh and I think I just
want to implement this on the Kernel
side because I'm kind of lazy and I feel
like
uh I feel like it's
fine so um at some point we definitely
want
to
uh okay cool so we have plus we have
times part and we we're going to need to
do list mutation too so we're going to
implement so today's um things to do are
going to be I don't know if I have an
issue for it but
um it's probably going to be related to
this so we're going to solve
this uh
okay so here we
are right so we're just going to
say uh
so we're saying if the head of the the
function so head means basically the
first thing in a list so this would be
the head xor so if the head is equal to
the symbol um
join uh then we're going to do something
and what we're going to do is we're
going to pull up the documentation for
join
so okay so we're probably not going to
add this one quite yet but we will
add this one concatenates lists or other
Expressions that share the same head
okay
so I remember that part of my hesitance
on even implementing this on the Kernel
side is could we implement this in in
the
um uh and I think I did have it
so
um pattern test or
condition
I
think right so it's kind of like that
except what we want
is my join of
L's uh let's see what is join of this
give empty list no oh it does give empty
list let's see
I don't know how this
works let's see what does it
say anyways um
so what we're trying to say
is
uh let see how does composition
work f after so we want same Q after
head
no but that doesn't
work I
think
um what is a pattern that takes a
sequence and and only matches if the
heads of each element of the sequence
are the
same I don't this before but
whatever well this invokes a lot of [__]
um
right condition support would be really
good I wish we did
that so condition support allows you to
basically
say something about this and
only matches if the condition holds and
so the problem that I ran into with
condition was there was like
non-locality like the right hand side so
if you look at the full form of this um
hold this so full form if you look at
this the condition is outside of the
pattern
so I just don't know like
right so the behavior of this function
is if you do F of uh
one yeah but then it does unevaluated it
so this I just don't know how to
implement really because the way the
pattern matro works
is you would
say uh match
Q of
F of
one f of x
blank oh wait hold on let me do G here
because f is already defined and then
you would get
true but
here if you look at
this for some reason I hate when it does
stupid
oh wait is it in the pattern
object the pattern object ends
here F ends
there and the set
delay
so conditions
seem harder than pattern
test because pattern test seems like it
only ever
wraps
uh let's get a test
[Music]
whether and it defaults to all
any result for
test pattern value other than true is
taking to sign signify
failure in a form such as sequence blank
uh question test every element in the
sequence is
matched every element in the sequence
matched by double blank must yield true
when test is applied so you map the test
on each element and if there's a failure
then you bail and you say that match
match ke returns
false so that kind of makes
sense okay I'll be right
back
for
e
yeah condition is definitely the best
one my problem is that
it is that it's not clear how you do
it
well
actually let's look at the docks for a
condition one more
time is it language or
Lang
let's look at this second
example see a list Place H all list
rule H right so you actually have a case
where from the right hand side and on
the left hand
side
so
level
checks all sub parts does the treat
reversal
yeah let's see what the hell that
does see what does it give me for
[Music]
test
the
[__] oh
um turn the same thing yeah I don't
think that did what I wanted to let do
level
what does this
do so it goes to the bottom
first it doesn't have the top level one
which is interesting which I guess makes
sense oh oh and this gives all the
atomic objects okay that makes
sense yeah level is a really useful
function it's kind of hard building a
language like this because you don't
know what to do
first um but at the bottom
here
yeah
um
yeah I want to see what version one
had
I wonder if you
can documentation
history oh cool oh that's
sweet
Amica building up using the
formula is there like an a table of
contents
dud Mathematica one had so much [__] in
it's crazy that they were able to do
this it's a old ass this is a old ass
thing
man it's cool it's really
cool alter
breaks
okay but this doesn't really tell me
that much I probably yeah I want
lists right right now in our system we
can do
table X10 right
yeah I wonder how you would
I mean the easiest
way
uh
that I can see this thing going
is is like
this table back
and does that
work oh
uh is that that turns into list
of uh
raw
of okay so what it does
is what it does is it's going to do
range
then it's going
to
um something like that
um but let's see I want to look at
table cuz maybe we could just write a
good
table
yeah I wanted to I was thinking about
this
earlier
positive
yeah just you're right if you do full
form it literally
just oh
uh like under the hood it's just a
con condition so hold on
um I think it I think it's exactly
this but okay see what else can I
do
man I I love
this okay but we want
to all right let's go back to this
can I just download the whole thing I
guess
not not
interesting
let's look at
lists yeah they had listable back
then and power if you look at the way
Mathematica works is all based on
attributes pretty much patterns and
attributes and stuff so if we look at
the attributes of the power function
we're going to see listable is there and
so that means that you can do whatever
they're saying here which is
uh which is
uh x to the power of 1 2 3 gives you x
one you know it turns it into that what
happens if you
do then it zips I feel like that
behavior
is maybe I should just remember
but cuz what happens what about what
about
this right
okay oh where were
we D is also listable that's
nice I don't really think I want
listable for right now I think you
should just call map I mean it's super
useful for so many things but
like I don't know does this this doesn't
even have stuff about lists in
it can I just get this
book just want the whole
book
but can I just get the whole
thing
BR that's so
annoying I wonder if wait hold
on wonder
if
yeah
no okay I don't care so list didn't
really have anything good in
it least not yet but there was more
stuff random support would be pretty
cool what's the difference between let's
look at the normal docks for uh
table I feel like if I just write a good
table
I feel like this this format of uh
n uh
bar
Max
Max Bar min
max
bar min max step I feel like this is
like something we could just start to
write some helper functions for and then
oh yeah and then
bar
BS in table is written to take a
uh
exper blah blah
blah so it would be really cool to write
table in itself
though what is
this this is I think what I'm describing
here
on
do we have range did I Implement that
feel like I might
have
no yeah
no is there a successor function
so here's how we Define something
in so
uh
that is it it's
clear
[Music]
um table is kind of implemented in
itself
um so now if we do range
of
Min pattern Max blank
int we want to do um starting at
Min and going
[Music]
for uh we need a minus we need a minus
unfortunately
oh wait actually we could do uh
plus
Max time
-1 min
so it's a
plus
times
this
this oh
oops range 5 to
10 oh nice
cool I want a
formatter so it goes
min max
n now let's try this
again uh
duplicate
this call this Max call this step I
think that it
probably I wonder uh let's look at the
range
docks
ragna step is going to be harder I
think
oh and it can't
be can it be
uh range X to X this is crazy hold
on
wow okay
well that seems
harder
okay fine but at least we have uh so
let's delete
this at least we can do that
um
until the result
[Music]
is but so now I wanted
to so hold on
new table
here so if we
have trying to think about how this
would work
because
I mean you could turn it into
like list
of and then the rule what did I write I
don't know where I put
that
yeah I feel like I'm implementing leaves
of the tree as opposed to like the root
and making it so that I can do General
stuff
but
um
but you would replace
all uh
part uh so I mean procedurally you would
first let's say you have let's say you
have
this but instead of here you got
list and let's see what is
the
for
let's do this
this this okay so now we have our ARs
here I kind of like
that
okay so what you're saying is
that you got a list of a pattern I blank
Sim then you got your Min and your
Max and those have to be those don't
have to
be uh
in it all they just have to be in
numbers I think so you can
do
22.4 it's still be
fine so that I don't
really
no
um
sure
is
right it's hold
all what happens if you put
a but
then
but that's just because under the hood
you get rule of
bar to uh whatever iterator
I and then you replace it and then you
get the
list
uh yeah
sure do this kill
that so
then
this is the
X and you have a list
of actually I guess we could do
this so then if you get rain
of
uh to this right oh
interesting uh where's our
m
let's see clear clear
range Okay cool so this is so cool
because now I can just do this let's see
range
nice
um
what if I
did do I have
raw let's called replace
all okay
uh yes you do this you
do place
all and what you want to do is you want
to replace
f
cuz when you want is you want rule
bar but I feel
like
uh this is just not going to go
well but it's to seek
time
what is this this
is turning f
ofx 10 in
a
but this
is this is uh like that turning it
into
oh yeah let's well I don't
know okay so wait so hold on so we got
this set FS to
this then we want to do replace
all f with rule let's say
um wa hold
on
this is so roundabout but this is like
so fun okay so
RS set our to
that oh [__] what do we do oh we f it up
set RS to that
okay then what we want to do
is does replace all work with patterns I
think it does so if we did this and we
said
RS and then we have a
rule and then in there that should
be
uh the full form of
this thing would be uh
pattern
h i just just
here we
pattern
H blank and then you put a parenthesis
here then you
got
pattern a blank then you put another
wait hold
on then you put another one here and you
do pattern
be
blank right that is the rule so then you
do
this oh
wow that's pretty
cool
um
but so let's say that we had t uh yeah
table let's see let me go
back and look at the
examples the simplest
one
so now that you have all the
rules
such a roundabout way to do
it let's see I wonder if I should just
put table
all right
well all right let's uh let's do
it all right so
uh that's interesting is it supposed to
do that
so
actually in this
one right but if I give it a zero there
then it doesn't give me an empty
list
okay so let's go to
attributes set adders
table
list
uh
okay
um
I feel like we should be able to steal
the
rusts R ranges step
see
what
dumbass stupid
what I wonder if I can do it with
big oh yeah write your own
great
okay
okay I'll say works but is not that
General where were those cases that I
had for
example okay
but this is just all all broken so we're
going to delete all of
this okay so table so the very first
thing
is
um
if uh
value
RS L equal equal to
two then we want
this El
if
uh oh we do want to be able to to
evaluate things I wonder if we could
give con context
to or we have context we can evaluate in
here do I
though I don't think I
do
um okay so let me just like sketch out
the
logic so if the length is
two
then we
have these
cases
or these
okay so uh so before we get ahead of
ourselves if what
xer
int what do they call it let just be
consistent equal to
Val args one and I think we need to do
pointer
remember
uh then I think we just return
uh that
chain
uh once that
chain map
uh BL why is this portraying some
[__] can you shut the hell
up
uh wait hold
on bro why are you yelling at
me
oh thank you okay so then what we want
is to copy it
okay all right so let's run
it okay let's say table
F10
what well first hold on let me
just sometimes bro let's just check the
attributes add is
table hold all
okay so if I do
table plus
22 plus
where we at
here so then why
did so
uh whatever
um
I feel like here we
go so we just returned all instead of
uh yeah I feel like I should just stop
getting in the habit of doing these
panic moves and just
uh
oh no no no no no we want
um I think that's what we want to
do
okay
uh
uh see what else is
it
H why doesn't that even work let's try
this
F
what
what if I do
this oh I'm an
idiot wow you can really destroy the
whole system that's all you need
protected cuz now you got to start all
over that's cool
cool okay funny funny
guy okay uh let's let's try that again
oop okay so uh table f 10 raw uh uh uh
r h rule list
C Okay cool so that's fine for some
reason I thought
oh man I thought everything was going to
break
okay so if it's not an
integer
uh what does it
say what do we actually want to have
happen we want to
push we want we want list and then for
the first element we want to
take the clone of Arc zero so we want X
X
is0 do or we want replace all X is 0.
clone and
uh
um the rule so okay so let let me just
write this
out but I want to delete all of
that and I wonder if that's true let's
delete that's
it we're just going to work through this
so the first thing that we want is we
want let as equal exper list we need to
make it VI and we want to give it
back okay oh and we want we actually
want
uh Sim there
okay
uh then what we're going to do
is right
uh if ls. Len equal equal to
two then we want to uh okay so yeah so
this is like um
this is the place where we
want to make helpers for what do they
call it the
standard
iteration
uh okay so we have a
list
uh it's it's going to be equal
to
uh expert list back
of
sim I feel like I should just invoke the
paral like why do I care let yeah equal
parse uh replace
all
of and then what do we want we
want
uh
this but
table body
equal table
body
uh why doesn't that
work and then here what do we want we
want oh we probably want
uh probably need to do
that oh then this does the formatting so
that's actually super
interesting wow dealing with this is
kind of
strange okay so let
me revert back to doing it this way and
it's going to be Sim
of
uh replace
all
then we want to
um we
want
EI
push
this oh I always name my
Julia then we want the rule so let rule
uh local rule I guess coding like a
dumbass bro I feel like I'm coding I
feel like writing this is so much less
elegant than
uh I want to get rid of this
actually
wait is everything okay yeah
everything's
okay
uh it's uh it's going to be
rule uh oh yes we want the
VAR
so this is our list then we know that
let bar equal to zero that's true so
then this should
be rule
bar
um
this is okay so
F and then this specific case is
I is there a range in
uh oh but we need it to be
in in
I feel like a u size into integer
probably an into so that's okay so the
rule should
be expert list back
of sim
rule uh then we want bar
VAR we probably need to do var. clone
but I don't know and then what else do
we need here we need
um the
actual right so we actually do
want
for see if it gets
it length table
body I don't think that's
right I mean that's just definitely
wrong um
I think it's supposed to be one
two and let's see it's supposed to
be equal to
uh
uh oh
oh
uh yeah if let
exper
in
IMX equal to
LS1 else
uh
uh refer to
that's fine so now we we want to put all
this stuff up here this unwrapping gets
a little tedious I got I got to
say so then uh so then to IM at
br going put all this stuff in
here and we're going to push this onto
our empty list I get it that's all good
ruar
uh but we can't just base it off the
length
can't oh uh yes we can because if it's a
list wait what is
LS maybe it's not the sequence
case
it's
not well no this is length
too well why don't I just do
this
Jesus sometimes
guys
what if I just H come on
uh fine I'll just write it out why am I
being such a
[__] what is
it see what happens when do this oh
perfect okay then you do
uh then you do
uh oh uh then you
do wait is it
after EI it's res. push
EI now I think you want to return that
right you
turn so here you want VAR and
then
the I think you just want
I come on can we do into
unra
bro oh yeah it's
this this thing is a lot of warts I
don't know how to write that
correctly
um but okay so now we should be able to
do
table of f
ofx uh list
X10 and then that gives us what we want
let's try
it so let's test this just to make sure
okay
oh
yeah and then what what does it complain
about
nice okay just make sure that our tests
pass of course
not
Baro okay
uh so now we do
run compile times are so freaking
long okay so we do table
FX
X10 nice that worked pretty
good
okay so
now I really do want to The Matrix case
I would love
that so if we do so what what we're
trying to do is
table F of i
j uh I
J1
so let's just say t isal to this and
then we get
T1 and it's a list of the first
10 cool I love
that but we want to refactor this so
that
okay let's just get it to
work so this is
uh this is the
case where you
have this is
I I'm in
I I wonder can you do
that no you
can't there's no three case for this but
that's
okay but this
one this
one I think this
works this one you could have uh you
know a
BC table of f
i goo
J and then we just want to put down that
then we want close
this oh yeah
um yeah so you can swap these around
so for now let's just get table to work
on all cases at the tests and then well
continue
on what if I Nest
this what if I call
this so I do this
table table f ofx
J then
table
that
J10 does that do what I want I think
that does what I
want so that's pretty
cool that's pretty sick actually
we got we got a oh wait but is it a list
of lists it is a list of
lists that's pretty
sweet so I
think so I think we just copy this code
we put this yeah put this here but then
we want to
say if let exper in I Min
comma this is equal to the Tuple of uh
LS1
LS2
I think that's literally all that
happens
oh except here we do I
in cool so now let's try
that table
FX uh
x510 nice
cool
um
so let's uh let's do something uh
cool nice the squares that is
sweet oh
man let's see how slow this is that's
not that slow that's pretty good I like
that let's do a
th000 still not that bad we got a big
table of
numbers that's pretty sweet
so what do we need to
do we want this and then we want that
one oh we want step
two okay
so lse if ls. Len is equal to
4 this one is
uh
I wonder if you can Skip
by uh yeah probably
not copy this
[__] paste it in here then we
want expert
in
and then what we want here is I think we
could just
do delete that do we have an extra okay
we don't what's going on
here bro what are you
doing
inconsistency but whatever seems
fine and then we
want let
uh that then we
want
oh yeah hold
on as you say we need that [__] let's
try to get rid of
it or
uh R me like a
but okay you need to convert the I 64 to
a u size
great okay so now we should be able to
uh we should be able to do
table
uh
FX X goes from uh 1 to 10 by
two let's try it out table G of x
x uh 1 to 10 by
2 cool so okay so we have the most of
the cases all
good we just need to add in
uh
sequences so here I think it's the same
thing except instead of I we
do
um
I mean yeah I really it would be good
for the by the end of the day to fix
that okay so now we just have to do this
one and then this one so we have two
left okay so let's go to
top
um
yeah that's fine well let's put it uh
here
okay so let's copy this
thing oh uh actually let's
do uh what do they call
them
what happens if we do
that oh
jeez 4 hold on well actually that that's
an interesting case for
sure
ranges bro
ranges so what's the case
where okay what if you put a string
there does it give you an error
better it's going to give me a whole
bunch of bullsh I hate that why can't
you just give me the text with that with
the spaces in it you
know then you can't do anything with it
I just see it all right
um so yes we just want to copy this
thing
whoa then instead of this we say for B
in
BS and
then we just give it val.
clone I think this the only case where
you actually have to do that in the
three
case
uh yeah I I don't know okay let's just
uh we want take
FX where X goes from
-1
I5
cool
oh
uh
wait actually that's an interesting
point do this it's a list instead of a
list we do f a
b or not Fab uh
H
uh
oh uh
for
and then uh did I already add that is
that true I think that's I think that's
all
good Okay cool so let's try that
again we do this
okay we get the right thing oops now I
want to do
uh uh Z inbow ring
specification what does it what does it
give
uh so here we say
return
nice I'm fine with that uh lots of
uh mornings or
whatever that's pretty
good now we need the last
case which is effectively just
nest
thing so we'll have to think about
that
e
okay sounds
good
um what's the last one the last one is
the iterated
one ooh I wonder if we can hack it bro
okay wait hold
on
uh if the first one is a
list all right fine we're going to add
it
back
uh
if it
have go back go back you had something
good
so what happens now if I just give it
this
oh we we want
T
okay I feel like we
could
I don't know how I refer to the refer to
itself okay uh so then we want to do
this if
evaluated rs. Len equal to two and then
we want to go all the way
down to here now we want to
say
um we want to we want want to return
table we want to
Nest oh crazy we want to become
uh
table
uh so yes so let uh range list
equal evaluated
args right
then but why is co-pilot is so
slow um
if uh so then what we want to do is okay
so I wonder if we can use Nest list but
all right fine so let
uh
we
want yeah we want to put that inside the
so the outer
one okay okay I think I get
it so let's just say we
have I I'm in
IMAX comma so let's just give the table
of
um jman J jmax okay so let's say we have
that
case
um why do you do
this
table
table that's
one and this was correct if I remember
correctly uh wrong
wrong
can we fix this to be
I
I but let
me see if this does the same thing I
think it does f or G of i
j uh
i3 a table of that with
J
three okay so this yes so okay so that
behavior is all
Gucci but we need to flip them so we
actually want to reverse
it
um
so let's see so we want to reverse
this so now we're working with in here
we
have first first is now
J
okay why is that
complaining [__]
you can you do it in the itter I guess
you
can't wait okay let's go
back do
this
do
this mutes itself though we
want
reverse I wonder if that's
right okay cool oh but it gives an
option oh next gets an option that's
fine the for Loop will be all
good um so now we
want
uh
uh oh we have table body
so
uh okay so let me just think so we want
to
push oh yeah hold on mute this x.
push
um table body. clone then we want to
okay I'm trying to think here
because this becomes so the answer the
answer is that we need to turn this into
table
of
uh table
of yes so this is the
answer
so first we make the innermost
one let's just it trying to work through
this code wait let
me
copy
all trying to implement
table
struggl with the last part where
we have multiple iterations
that's
um
essentially we want to
transform
to
for number of
range let's see what it says I'm just
curious CU I feel like it might be okay
at
this which is a challenging but
interesting task hey thanks
Guy why is it showing me all the stuff I
already done come
on okay here we go
table body for range and R reverse new
table
okay hold on new table match new
how is that even
possible oh I think that
works
for
no way this
works no way this works uhuh I don't
believe
it feel like I
might oh hold
on
that works great it's exactly what I
wanted okay so now we got to write
tests that is
sweet that is so freaking
cool okay I'm going commit
that
I think range is just to implement of
with
table so hold on we
got I wonder if we should do that hey
what's up man rust
Rover um I'm sure I don't let's
see rain rust
Rover oh hey I heard about
this should I try it I feel like I don't
want to be one of those config junkies
though like I feel like config junkies
they end up just messing around with a
Vim configuration instead of building
stuff so I don't I don't want to do that
and I'm like close I just want to finish
my test right now so hold on let's
comment these out oh dude you got to see
this though this is so cool I think I
maybe showed you this last time but now
I can just copy and paste multiple lines
and paste them into the into the rep W
and they get defined so very convenient
feature that I added okay so untested
table
implementation let's call this
um I commented outrange so now I want to
rerun
this so I got to figure out about this
compile times 3 seconds is like too slow
for me like I want it to be under a
second but I don't know how to I don't
know is is is there stuff about
compiling
or um oh it's free just for
now okay I'll think about it but is
there a way to uh figure out why
compilation is taking so long I would
like to know about
that
okay so yeah so we want range 10 make
sure nothing
happens okay so now we want to do
set the range pattern blank uh pattern
and blank int and for now we're
basically my language just does not
handle real numbers like it's sort of
like a fake thing that we say we handle
real numbers because we don't really do
anything with
them you can't even add two real numbers
um
so this becomes
table NN I
think oh
uh oh I think we just want to do
this um
I think it's that so wait so hold on
clear
range go there then we
do
H oh am I actually being a dip bro I
think I might be stupid hold on I got to
fix something
because yeah that's so funny oh [__]
okay so what we actually
want up at the top here here hold on let
me open my phone so I can see the
comments yeah
I
yeah I know but you know making some
progress for
sure on just making this language usable
so I'm not too concerned about sketch
[__] wa are we in table
Yeah if the evaluated ARS is
two so hold on the problem is when we
were using
table just make our our basic
table we actually need this to be a
list but I don't know why that
made this
fail I wonder if I remove that so wait
hold on let's clear range and go back up
and just remove
this
yeah okay so it's just a matter of
fixing that so this is the copy case and
we still
want no yeah that's
okay um so we want this to
be
three we want this to be
two
where's my assertion that it's a list I
had something like
that or yeah wait hold on LS
zero
okay okay um where we at
here this is the and then the
VAR VAR is not this it's
one LS
is I feel like this is just
wrong oh no that's
okay hey man code that runs is code that
runs uh soding says you should never be
ashamed of code that
works and I believe
him uh what are the
vows
so that should be okay okay yeah and
then here L the length of the list
actually needs to be
four and then we
want we want this to be two and
three and this one is this five yeah so
because I forgot about the list so this
needs to be five then
here we want two to
end okay so I think that that's all we
needed we do table
of f of I list
I uh
three I 2 to
4 and
then list uh
High
by what do we do
WR I wonder is there a way to like
introspect like I I feel what is debug
does
that oh that's sick Oh I like that a lot
I don't know why I've been using print
instead of debug I want the location
info that's s that's so
nice I love
that I didn't know about that I saw
people using it I was like what does
this
do okay yeah because I want to know
which one it printed at cuz I just had a
whole bunch of
these oh
what
weird
okay so what do we have
here oh that's so nice I love
that I'm sure tracing sounds very nice
it just seems like a lot of work at the
start you know but uh I definitely agree
that I will I will there's too much to
do though I want to simulate a cellular
automa I got
goals it's literally three lines of
code I don't know man all right well the
problem is getting pulled in all these
different directions like it seems like
something new and I just don't feel
ready for it yet
in the main and that's it and so all
right well I'd have to see what it
really does but maybe I should set up CI
for this so I can see what happens in
pull requests because that would be the
easiest way for me to assess whether or
not I should actually actually do it uh
where am I
going so this is the case
where somehow we didn't
get
uh uh yeah give me give me like five
minutes I just want to debug this and
then I'll hop
on okay
so IMAX is two oh IMAX can't be two IMAX
is supposed to be three here right no no
it's
two
right
okay I think this needs to be
two okay I think I fixed all the
indices
whoa got a whole bunch of stuff valid
range
specification why is it why is it print
so
weird oh man that's these stupid indices
actually
ridiculous
nice okay let me just add the tests and
then we can do
stuff
okay so
uh oh yeah I wanted to
actually I think we just need
this just let's copy this over I think
we only need that I don't think we need
anything
else by the way check this out I I
cloned I cloned mathx which definitely
has way more
uh stuff in it
uh way more stuff in it than my language
but if I do SEC on it this thing has
120,000 lines of python code this thing
is almost 2,000 lines of code and it
still does a ton of [__] I think it's
the best way to learn
Mathematica I really do so we need to
run the attributes file then we want to
evaluate um does this return an expert
nice and we want to
evaluate table
table
F3
uh wait hold on let let's do our handy
case
um you we get table
F3
oh which is
uh just going to be
um okay then we
have
table
I uh list
I uh
three I guess which is going to
be
uh list of one two
three
then we have table of I list
I24
then this is
list this is going to be so annoying
when I change lists to be capitalized
I'm going have to change it
everywhere table so what what did I need
now let's see did all three of these now
we need a
stepper I list
I one 10 or one say
six uh
two list and what what is this actually
table
I uh
i62 five
let's see what's the last one or
there's oh yeah there's successive
values
oops so this wants to
be list oh
[__] hi or let's make it something else
1.5
3.5
make sure this is all
right
cool then what's our last
case do co-pilot I feel like just breaks
on my machine I don't know maybe it's
a hello wake up so D just
broken okay and then
uh let's start with the simplest one
which is going to be
uh and this needs to be a
list
I think that's
good let's make it
two
cool and then uh we just want to
do
um
Moment of
Truth
H I always hate
this that's the problem with the loop
thing
wait
um I actually want to this
sh um oh yeah there we go it's pretty
good so I can just switch for this
now all
right
[Music]
nice so cool and now range is just
implemented with
table so now we can just do
uh I think I already have it
range
now we
still H we still don't have the ability
to take just random Expressions we
assume that they're integers which is
really lame
somehow we need to be able to
destructure
that that
uh oh that is so
difficult
I want to look into Rusty Lin's auto
complete cuz I should be able to just
take the keys in the context as uh
completions
do yourself
hints file name
completer
contrl
s
oh that already
Works
[Music]
nice
please use radex
tree so what what do you do here
display I mean that would be really
[__]
[Music]
cool should run this example to see what
it looks
like I already have
this see if there's anything new in
here oh
wow
uh
uh we want
I guess I can configure
that I don't really I don't really think
that that's that good like I pythons and
other other ones do way better
stuff all right deemed not
worthy will definitely be useful in the
future
um okay but now we can at least
uh
uh yeah that's
correct
let's make it
uh I don't really care what it's
called
wait wait wait
wait no no no no I'm being an
idiot that so cool I mean now we are
really
coding so
sweet
uh does range take list a
list or you just they just say to use
table Isn't that cool I think it's
cool
um and it's just cool because you just
forward these to table so it was I think
it was worth it to just bite the bullet
and implement it in the kernel because
we get a lot for free
now now I think
um what should
happen damn I mean we're still
we're still so limited in the pattern
matcher I could just Implement a simple
join myself but what we want right now
is to be able to
join uh f a uh G can we just do this
clear
all F I want to be able to use
F this do what I asked
okay
we want this feature because this
feature also
works with
lists and anything that has a matching
head so basically since the head of this
is list but now if I try to do this it
gives me a warning and what does it
return it returns itself so heads list
and F positions one and two are expected
to be the
same um
I think I'm just going to uh and the
reason for it
is what is it that
we cuz I'm trying to think of the
functions that we really need to
implement cellular automa and the
functions that I feel like we really
need table is just generally very useful
because we now
do
uh I think before I was able to make a
list of
zeros making what into actual
structs what would the token enum have
in
it
I don't really
know
uh oh yeah
um yeah yeah yeah
um
right but the
so would that be only so
for so for the
this those are all the builtins which
makes sense
so do you mean
specifically just for the ones that are
in the
internal this where I have this match
where I just look look look at the head
or are you saying anything that's on any
like range like for instance range is
never mentioned in internal functions
apply but it uses stuff from it
so I'm making data
inside
mhm yeah my I mean the reason why I'm
worried is
that I don't know I get the sense that
mathematic is
not well maybe it is implemented that
way but this is so
simple and it works that I don't I don't
know I feel risky trying to do that
imp your current custom
trait
yeah they H they have a parer
online
I mean this would have
it this so this is
what their thing
does it seems like it just has position
information and the name of the symbol
it seems like it so call node and then
it stores the symbol so plus is not
special case in any way it's just like
any other
symbol right like no symbol is greater
than another symbol is kind of the
philosophy I feel
like I wonder if I can use this
in oh
nice
you still have different
types yeah but there's an infinite
number of types I guess you just put
those in custom I don't it just doesn't
seem like they do that it seems like all
they have is this notion of symbol and
there's no special
symbols but uh what was I going to
do
um oh yeah I want to implement U
mutation replace part and append two and
stuff like
that
I mean if you like made a mockup so I
could see how it works because I just my
problem is like I'm not the best
programmer so I don't really
I can't really see what any of this
looks
like I don't really
uh yeah I
mean I'm sure it'd be an improvement
it's just one of those things like is it
worth it if this works
fine
um yeah
hold on but my goal for this stream was
I really wanted cellular aoma so let's
just
Implement
um let's just Implement join really
quick um hopefully I can find my chat
where I
actually is there
something
custom IF
function maybe it's in
here I think it
is
all right yeah I'll I'll yeah I'll I'll
put the cell atom it on hold hang
out did I commit everything let's
see
what is the what is the limitations of
range okay yeah
uh I mean this this thing is crazy X to
x +
4 uh basic range using
table
okay hey what's
up hopefully our volumes I feel like my
volume gets
louder when I join
Discord
oh right maybe it's
hello can't hear
you hopefully this is
fine yeah now I
can ask times now uh what is this uh
thing you're trying to implement oh yeah
it's um so there's this book called new
kind of Science by this guy Steven wol
who made Mathematica and it's all about
how simple rules can lead to very
complicated behavior and so he has this
uh thing called a cellular
atoma uh and basically it's just a
one-dimensional grid of cells and
there's a rule that defines its
Evolution from one step to the next and
you can just run this and so here's an
example of one of these rules where if
you let's say you're one of the guys on
the bottom you look above you to to your
you know upper left right above you and
then to your upper right and you look at
if there's a matching Rule and then you
determine what color you are and so you
do that
for all the cells and then Simple Rules
like this will lead to a checker board
where you'll get something cool like
this uh so the goal is to recreate these
pictures
uh eventually so having yeah so you get
fractal
patterns
yeah can you show the rule that leads to
this kind of kind of image this
one any any because I'm trying to
understand how you can express it in
text uh yeah uh right so the way that I
was thinking of doing it is either with
a rule like this that you so here I'll
put this in here so this is just a oh
shoot okay give me a
second
so something bad happened yes okay yeah
clearly there is no example in the book
right uh I I think they he just says to
use
his like because they have built in
things that uh
do
this where it just shows you the picture
I think but I wonder if there is
a um what does 30 mean in there in the
square brackets yeah so this is the
numbering system that so if you look at
this bottom line if you take all the
black cells and convert it to base
two then you get the number 30 so you
know one one one one one one one 1 0 is
30 in uh binary so so this is how you
number these
things
um why do I have so many so many of
those things I I don't feel
okay have so many of
what I guess
triangles what do they mean I mean I get
one which
triangles
oh like you have like a what seven or
eight of them right oh yeah so because
there's eight
possible configurations of of these
things right you can have an all white
above you you can have you know you're
basically counting in binary on the top
here so that's why you have eight right
so this is one in binary two and binary
3 four five 6 7 so 0 through S oh I see
I see I see I see oh and I think at the
bottom it expresses the like the results
of top
ones uh yeah exactly yeah so if we were
to
um let's say uh how do I do this I
always forget um let me just go to the
book really
quick and copy the code that does that
picture um so here's it for 50 steps so
if we just wait let me do it for like
five steps so we can see it better and I
don't want this mesh all right that's
fine so okay so we start with this grid
of all white except for a single black
in the middle so then what we do is we
iterate over these things and you know
here we assume that to the upper left
it's still white I believe I forget
exactly what the specifics are but I
haven't gotten that deep yet but let's
say let's say we started number two we
been to our upper left it's white to
above us is white and then you know to
our right is white so we look at our
Rule and we see that it's uh that we're
supposed to be white so that's how we do
it and then we just iterate over these
and you know for this one it says okay
if to our upper right is uh black and
the other ones are oh actually you know
what I should do is uh show you
this let's see it's in the atlas I think
there is someone in
chat uh it's turned up too high yeah no
you're you're you're right for some
reason when I start Discord it becomes
problematic I think I need to set it to
like
eight all right maybe it's
a let me know if it's still bad well
okay let's see how about all right it
seems like zero maybe minus two yeah
okay this should be
better all right going back to
this uh here what was I going to show
you the Boolean representation or
actually I I just know it by heart so
for rule
30 for rule 30 I'm trying to understand
so this thing I'm sorry so this thing is
one of like 20 or 30 different like I'm
not sure how to call them like built-in
patterns yeah yeah so these are the I
think they're called the elementary
cellular automa meaning that they take
three you know One n one range of one
neighbor so you look at three but you
can look at five but if you I mean if
you think about the combinatorics of
this there are 256 possible values for
the bottom row which means that there
are
256 uh cellular automas so if we go
through I think he has a page in the
book where he just
um where he just makes a table oh here
here's what I was looking for um table
all right I don't know let me go back to
the there's a great
um okay so here is him just enumerating
all of the rules I
think uh or at least that's one page of
them and so there are 256 of
them yeah here they
are you can see most of them do kind of
boring things but then you get gems like
rule 30 that do really cool things that
are hard to
predict well yeah I had the gain set up
to 15 DB because when I'm not on Discord
it becomes really quiet so it should be
better now um okay yeah so that's that's
what these are if you think about it
entering yeah okay um oh when you were
in wfront page right you were entering
like plot roles and they're like in
square brackets you had auto complete
for like a not not only cell automaton
but something else also so I assume you
would also want to implement those right
uh which
ones oh you you writing like R plots
like square brackets and inside of and
inside of square brackets you had like a
several aut complete
things like
this I guess yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah so you're saying Implement
Auto autocomplete I definitely do want
to no no no I mean all those I'm not
sure to call them command like C
entities huh I'm not sure how to call
them okay uh what's I going to do though
oh I wanted to show you that if you boil
this down to uh so like imagine that
above you to your left is like to the
left is the variable P so let's say we
have a function f that takes p q and
R and we want to Define this rule it
turns out sorry yeah go ahead I I'm not
capable unfortunately to comprehend all
this fancy meth behind it well it's
pretty simple I mean the the answer to
to what this rule signifies is simply
the xor of p with the or of yeah I I I'm
not talking about the like this
particular thing there like the broader
meaning like what the purpose of it
something like that what I'm I'm trying
to understand is have the Parson works
here the parsing uh for instance this
rule yeah so for instance he copy pasted
this rule like the that made like a huge
I guess pyramid whatever on top of you
m like you can scroll up a bit yeah
you're talking about this one no yeah
yeah yeah this
one um is actually just so uh what I was
thinking about is that you define those
like you define an entity right and to
the right of entity you have some kind
of settings or like data it holds right
oh these
options
yeah yeah so if you want to see this
might be helpful uh to see how
uh well um what do I want to show you I
mean these are just options that are
taken by array
plot but but maybe it's helpful to see
the full form of this CU then you can
see the S expression under underneath it
it's going to be huge but you can see
here there's a bunch of graphic
stuff um yeah so maybe we don't want the
I'm what about what about Stu in square
brackets like 30 uh 30 comma curly curly
curly I'll show you that mean that that
I just look up
that oh I messed
oh uh yeah so the
way they they they specify all of this
spec
like stuff
here
um
I mean there's like a ton of
options there's so many
options wait wait how do you specify
those options on top of you could you
please show me like can you scroll up a
bit
there uh yeah like the first ones like
Dimensions like Dimensions colors range
how do you specify those how does it
know that it's this specific
option just based on the structure of
the list
on the structure of a list or I mean the
structure of the expression see I see
like like basically what this list is
saying is that you have one in the
middle and then everything else is
zero um and I feel
like let's see if I can find inet yeah
um so what I was thinking about about
this particular thing yeah so you could
have like um oh I'm sorry uh one more
thing I wanted to ask you how do you
implement those custom commands which
ones I mean for instance you want
to let's say you want your like special
commod instead seller Tom right
something I don't I have no idea what
you can want to implement something El
you're you're saying in the internal
functions apply
thing here yeah yeah what what if you
wanted to add something not built in
inside H how does it work like would you
like um Implement a library and then you
would like register something into core
and then you would run it as a binary oh
plugin in your mind well oh for me for
me no I I expect that nobody should have
to write this kernel side code at all
that at some point it's self-hosted
enough where you should you should be
able to write everything possibly just
in
here um like like for instance we were
able to write um
yeah I see so my idea was to have a tra
that that allows you to parse stuff and
then to um like to look inside or
whatever it's inside like to check if it
if it can be uh it can be access as like
little data elements like um
to access it as an
iterator uh
or or you showed previously the join
thing right um so you could also have
something as like internal type like a
type ID inside of that inside of that
tra like a type accessor something like
that uh and then you would just
implement this trait for custom
structures for your like um uh like like
what did you have there join write
list uh this tomon uh what else
um you have this thing with a like
variable name oh and uh and like list
inside I don't know how it's called Uh
variable name and a list inside like f
square brackets and a
inside uh x square brackets a inside
like
this uh yeah yeah yeah
yeah uh so what you had it in join
previously oh right right right yeah so
join F not X yeah yeah join X of a x of
B so this yeah it would be a right yeah
so this gives you that if the heads
match then you're
good so the way that I so what is it's
like name of an arrrow right
huh head oh so if you were to think
about uh so underneath all this is just
s Expressions right so in my language X
this is equivalent to is equivalent to
uh x uh is equivalent to this so these
are the exact same Expressions just this
one's in my language and this one's in
their language and so a head is
basically anytime you have a list head
you take the first one or if you have an
atom like just a single expression you
go ahead of this it basically gives you
the type so if I said head of high this
would give
string and so on for integers but
anytime you give head of X of a it's
going to give X because that's the first
element of the
list so this is kind of like a type of
function but it's a little more General
I see uh but I as far as I understand
there they
also uh like a predefined types right I
mean symbol and yeah so there's there's
uh there's a four of them buil right
there's
uh
and so these are all of them symbol
string integer real and uh list that's
pretty much all all it
is wait I'm sorry what's the difference
between the head and a
symbol the difference between a oh I'm
sorry I'm sorry not not
head head an X not had symbol and had X
like on on both of they are symbols what
does okay uh n66 yeah and N64
those yeah so this
is a compound expression so the head of
it is the top of it but since this is a
naked symbol it just gives you the type
of it is
that uh is that answer
it I
guess um wait uh can you I guess it's
stupid but can you use join if you had
like a something like a with symbol and
then with x x of a so you're saying uh
join of x x of a no yeah yeah yeah so
one would be empty with like no data
inso yeah and the other one would have a
inso yeah right so another way that sort
of illustrates interestingly this one
didn't give the error but if we were to
do y of B here what it says is heads X
and Y and X are different so it doesn't
return anything yeah yeah yeah I get it
that's why I asked you that yeah yeah
yeah I get
it yeah I was wondering if it if it give
you an error okay interestingly this one
didn't give an error but it also didn't
do what you would expect right it just
stayed
unevaluated yeah I would expect it to
give just eight right because X is like
empty yeah but but that's that's the
thing is that you can't think of this
cuz the the thing is uh X and X like
this with no arguments these are
different right so if I call head on
this one I actually still get
X but head of this one is symbol
still okay that that's something a bit
complicated but I think I understand how
to do that I mean you still have a PR
defin types those you could you could
actually optimize that bit
um um a question about context like does
it all have stay like this thing so if
you define something on top like in N1
can you still use it like right now like
in in n70 something uh sorry say say
that again so if I you're saying if I
say x equals
1 yeah yeah yeah does it like maintain
its state does it have like some kind of
context right yeah so and if you want to
just for clarity
in context uh wait hold
on uh so uh what I'm asking here exactly
is what if you define say x to
be um like have like NE type and then
like what if was like okay I'm sorry
what if it what if at some point it was
symbol and then you use it with
something inside of
it so it has like an X Type not symbol
anymore so you're saying it you're
trying to refer I what should I type in
I'm trying to figure out exactly the
case you're trying to
write I'm I guess I me I don't know that
many operations you can do with that
stuff so what I'm trying to understand
if you could redefine the type of your a
what if in one place you use an X as
like a x and any other place using X as
a
symbol uh wait well what do you mean oh
X yeah yeah right I feel like you're
saying if one place you refer to it this
is what you mean by X is an X and this
is what you mean by X as a symbol I see
what or I should let me hold on let me
clear yeah yeah yeah I I'm not sure how
to name that like X is an X like a
unique type I guess custom type yeah
right so that's the interesting thing
about this language is that it can be a
function or it can just be a wrapper for
data like for instance RGB color
it's just a wrapper around data so it
doesn't ever modify it it just gives you
this pixel uh so yeah that's seconde I
think I have a weird delay on his stream
okay okay I reloaded the page okays good
seems better oh wait so RGB color is
what oh it's what it doesn't actually I
mean here I should I should keep it as
full form but it doesn't actually modify
itself it just maintains its expression
and has some way to display it in the
output so
here
um this is I guess what you're saying is
that you kind of can have a head be a
type but uh it's I I feel like it's not
a onetoone mapping by like lists list
heads and types is not I mean maybe it
there is some correspondence there but I
don't think exactly like
that yeah how does it know that X is not
something that's like how does it know
that X is not a mistake on your behalf
so like if you wanted to call a function
called X and not to create something new
called
x uh no does it like look on through
like everything built in and if it
doesn't find anything then it creates
like a new like Type
X yeah so so I don't know if this ex
exactly how it does it but there are uh
and I could link the uh
there's sort of like a couple of things
that get stored in the
context and so I only have three of them
and I don't even do anything with this
one but basically you can have every
entry in this context thing basically
Maps what's called a tag which is
effectively a naked string to one of
these table entries so for instance let
me go back to here um if I were to say
xal 1 that is called an own value so
that puts an entry into here and says
that if you just see the naked X then
return what's in this hash map of here
so that means that it has its own value
but now I could have xals 1 but I could
also Define X of a is equal to the and
I'll uh yeah is equal to
high and what this does is this sets
what's called a down value and so now oh
oh yeah sorry hold on uh
I can't do this I can't do this because
the reason why is see how it said it
tried to uh tag integer one of a is
protected and the thing is since I set
it to one let me see if I do uh clear X
the the the point is just that there's a
distinguish of like where you look in
the map here x of a is equal to a and I
think if I maybe do this after let me
see xals 1 I wonder if I it probably
evaluates its head so I probably this
probably just gives you one of
one yeah so
uh but all I was trying to say is that
this is a down value assignment and this
is a own value
assignment um so they're stored in
different places and you
match uh
differently that's not a very good
explanation I
see
I see I
uh so essentially on loin 87 you have
something like J map
right
uh on on this one in
87 it's it's so it's okay hold on let me
clear X again so it's not it's like a
and this now we're finally getting to
like pattern matching and I'm really
glad you asked this one because this is
how pattern matching works so X of a
will return High that's that's great but
now if I give it X of B what does it
return it returns itself okay so that's
already one place where you sort of uh
split off from how normal Maps work in
in different languages but now I can
define an additional value that says if
I'm not a so let's say it's B with the
underscore so this is a pattern object
this is equivalent to the pattern x
blank in my
language then or pattern b blank
b blank wait wait wait wait wait wait
wait I'm sorry I'm bit confused yeah
what does it actually mean like BB
underscore so what this means is
um I just want to look up the uh blank
docs and get the right answer so blank
is a pattern object that can stand for
any Wolfram language expression so
basically what that means is that in the
pattern matcher when you look up match Q
yeah yeah yeah I I get what I'm to
interrup here I understand what blank is
I don't understand what it means in
context of be blank uh so yeah so let me
let me write that up uh so if I want to
say um you know Fu blank this is just
naming when you do some you know some
name underscore what that's saying is
that it just creates a binding from
whatever was matched to the blank it
gets this name so now I could say you
know okay so now I'm defining a new
function see how it got green basically
it's saying there's a pattern object on
the left hand side now I can say Foo
plus one so now when I do X of two it it
goes to this one and you get three but
still if I still call X of a I'm G to
get high because it's a more immediate
match because we said hell I like that
yeah yeah it's pretty cool I feel like
I'm starting to get into it nice yeah I
mean the only thing I don't like is this
absolute Fest Bost syix that takes ages
to
yeah oh no dude the syntax is C like for
instance you can do uh uh
uh
uh [__] hell look at this look at
this mean so this is apply and then this
is a post fix apply then you can also do
stuff like um uh um
uh uh what is it how do I do it wa wait
wait can we stop for a second yeah can
you please elaborate where you have an N
100 okay so what this is doing is this
first
part turns into this goes to list of B
of
A or no no sorry this turns into list of
a
wait what the hell is list B of
A is it like list that has one like a
custom to B that has element a right
wait sorry Start
Over wait uh wait you just you just
wrote the like less to B of A what does
it even mean yeah let's see I'm trying
to think about this sentext in terms of
like actual so this what this is gonna
turn into is it's gonna turn into
that so it's a list containing one
element which is B applied B with
argument
a sorry I'm moving around the M okay
okay okay that that's just what I
thought okay now can you please
elaborate those those at symbols that
like two at symbols right so uh know so
if we look at the ATS this is just uh
and the the docs are super good I really
like the docs so basically F at expert
or apply F expert replaces the head of
expert by F so basically you're taking B
and swapping it out for this guy so then
it becomes list a and that's how you get
this wait wait wait wait I'm
sorry give me a second yeah yeah yeah
replaces head in postive Expressions
specified by LS replaces the hand of
expression app wait what's the purpose
of it can't you just write list of a uh
yeah you could uh but it just shows the
beauty of the symbolic language that you
can do stuff like this
like I agree with you sometimes I'm like
why do you need this but it's actually
kind of cool
because you know like if you wanted to
sum these up you could just switch plus
which takes a variable number of
arguments with the list so there's kind
of cool stuff you can
do by the way you don't happen to have
an edu uh email do
you no I don't okay because you could
you could get into this and mess around
with
it I'm trying to understand how you can
efficiently par it I think I have an
IDE okay hold on I need to use the
restroom
all
right
I want to show you another thing that's
super cool you can uh you can do this
too wait wait wait I'm not watching give
me a second oh yeah you're good uh yeah
I'm watching okay all right so you could
do this and now you've defined a pattern
and this is a way to set a conditional
on X so now F of minus one is just going
to return itself this fails to match but
then F of one you
get a
match wait uh what is PPP it's just some
arbitrary thing it's just some random
function what do you mean random
function because looks like ANS to
me oops oh wait that was one one to
one but you can do anything is like a
new type right well it's just a function
with one
argument it's an interesting way to
think that any unique head that's not an
atom head is like a type I don't really
think like that but it's an interesting
way to
think I it looks like time to me because
like you can't you can't join them
because there's like different types
right um the language itself treats them
at different types but then like is is
plus a
type is plus plus no plus is a command
but it's the same
thing right I could say
anything equals plus just a field you
know it's like I would treat it as some
kind of field
like wait anything is plus
okay and so far it feels like a dynamic
language when like a variable is going
to be functions yeah yeah yeah that's
every every single thing has a
to right but then it's one ofs obviously
and then this is just a symbol
though and
anything wait because yeah had had a
symbol
wait what's wrong about that no no
there's nothing wrong about that
reasonable because
it honestly it feels like really like
JavaScript to me H I don't know
JavaScript so you definitely could be
right like you just grab field you
assign a function to
it
um like a field like a normal variable
can be a
function you can call try to call a
field but it will fail you can try to
call a function obvious as a field and
it will succeed like like something you
have like plus right yeah wait anything
2 do3 wait so on on in 111 essentially
do plus plus 2 one plus three right so
um so in in just in case you want to
look at what this code roughly is you
would I'm I'm about to explain what it
does but if you go to function evaluate
this explains why you get what you get
but if you go into here uh I just want
to show you you grab the head let me
guess yeah let me guess yeah uh so what
I would do uh if I was like if I had
some kind of a table of all symbols I
have in my like a let's call it let's
call it context or state yeah yeah call
it first of all I would try to match my
anything and I would get a match
obviously yeah and I have anything
pointing to plus that is one of my build
typ Y and and then I would just invoke
call or whatever I have apply on this
plus entity and I would pass an how's it
called iterable list inside of that plus
and I would get five as an output right
so that's that's exactly right the the
biggest thing about Mathematica is that
all it does is it basically looks for
rules and it applies them until there's
no more rules left to apply so you're
right the first thing you do is you look
at the head if the head has an own value
basically you EV you evaluate the head
and the first thing you do is if it's a
symbol you check its Val you know if it
has an own value and if it does you
replace what the original head was with
the new head and so now you have so this
gets turned and I think we should be
able to do
trace and see
that so we get anything to plus then we
get 2 plus three then we get
five so that's exactly right wait wait
wait wait wait um
what is what surrounds the second curly
brace is it like a chain of
inheritance uh no this is just a chain
of inheritance like like I'm
sorry like a it means that anything is
an alias for
plus um yeah yeah that is effectively
what that means is that anything got
replaced when you basically what this is
saying is that originally I had anything
when I evaluated anything I found okay
I'm
sorry I'm sorry it could you please do
like anything two equals anything and
then do the same Trace so anything of
two equals
two no no no any no no no no no anything
anything okay yeah oh nice nice yeah I
see what you're doing all right we're we
yeah and then we'll do this again except
with
two oh
what I expected would be anything to
anything okay interestingly it skipped
it I thought it wouldn't skip it
either huh yeah okay that that's
something I was yeah I was interesting
about so it skips anything that is
justas let's see I want to try
this I mean that just optimization uh
makes
sense
yeah
I think what it is is that it takes this
symbol and it only Returns the result of
evaluate so it could be that there's
multiple calls to evaluate like for
example in here I I think it's smarter I
think it's smarter it resolves it when
you assign it so first it goes into
anything like first without to anything
it grabs it's like a like root value
like a like this plus right because it's
like that's what it's assigned to it
like and then it assigns anything to to
plus directly so so then next time
you're trying to like oh yeah no you're
totally right you're totally right yeah
yeah you're totally right because when
we did this when we evaluated because if
we look at the attributes of a set so if
I if I put this into full
form what this is what is set set so oh
wait hold on sorry I uh uh set is so if
I do set a to B this is equivalent to a
equal B these are the same
expression set is just how you so you
know yeah so if I do a hold aals B to
full form what we will see is set
AB um so wait I want to try something
actually because you got me thinking if
I
do uh A2 is and this is here um I I'll
show you there's a difference between
and I I just want to keep using the
docs so there's a the whole the whole
cool thing about the evaluation is that
you can control when things get
evaluated so set delayed has attribute
hold all rather than hold first whereas
set and that means that you don't
evaluate anything so if I do
um if I do x equals uh let's say yal y +
we get a terminated evaluation so we hit
a recursion limit but if I did why and
let me clear all y if I do y delayed
equals y + 1 then we don't evaluate this
we just get nothing but then when I try
to evaluate y I get a recursion limit so
what I want to try is if I do easy okay
yeah so if I do A2 delayed equal to
Plus
then I do A3 delayed equal to two oh
sorry not two
A2 then I
do I'm curious what happens if I do
this ah see now we have a chain of
three that makes sense
cool so A3 found a those are lazy
yeah
damn that's a lot of stoft to
implement yeah I have an issue open for
wanting Trace because Trace is the
coolest
function I don't think it should be that
hard but I I haven't really dug into it
yet I mean it's fairly easy if you if
you maintain the context is
the yeah just when anytime you enter the
uh you basically build up
a you build up a tree of the same shape
and then you
uh I don't
know you you have to build this tree but
I I don't think it'll be that hard I
just don't know exactly how to do it
yet three uh anyways looks like flat SM
to me huh
I mean looks like flat map to me flat
what I mean it shouldn't be a tree it
should be like just a flat map isn't it
no no see how there's nested
lists nested list yeah so if we look at
the full form A2 plus I mean those are
like
two those I mean in my opinion those are
just two forms like two two key value
pairs
oh let's see oh wait wait what do you
mean like uh here let's look at the
example
misunderstood these are all pretty
complicated Expressions
um wait that's a generates a list of all
Expressions used in the evaluation of
expert so I'm pretty sure it's like a
tree
structure where you have these chains
[Music]
list all Expressions
used right so basically A3 was used then
yeah but that doesn't really explain why
it's a tree
um
yeah man if you unfold the whole key
value pairs or all key value pairs then
yeah man you would end up with a tree or
maybe not a tree but grph right
is because you can have like two things
poed and one thing right like
uh
yeah yeah like like list
there uh but yeah you could have like
several things and if we did if we
did
uh let's try
this oh my man that's just expression
tree I
man
yeah so I want the I want the normal
form of
this output
form yeah I see it I see it but yeah I
wasn't talking about the expression tree
I was talking about the like those
entities inside of a tree like um if you
had something like say A1 pointing to A2
and A3 and then you would have A4 also
pointing to a A1 and like A2 and A3
right so it would be like
a not not exactly a tree because you
would have like a one node could have
multiple parents yeah you're right
you're right so
uh uh can it though A1
equals I think
cuz you can't you can't do this because
then if you do A1 you get
A3 no no no no no I no no
no uh but then a no just A4 equals A2 or
A3 or whatever you have A1 set
to but then both these are separate and
they have parent A3
so A3 just has multiple children
though
parent but then you can use both A1 and
A4 in a single
expression then you would have like a
diamond
shape let's
see A1
A4
I think it stays a
tree uh wait what do you mean St for you
have A3 and left side and right
side well but there there's more than
there's
three top level things
here can can can you make a tree form
yeah hold on I want to actually uh I
mean like like you would have like A3 As
Leaves like in two so like left and
right so right I want to leave this one
here and I want to print out this one
okay
so A3 A3 yeah yeah you have A3 like on
left side there and then in the
middle yeah but this is
uh okay
yeah yeah
anyway it it doesn't matter yeah that's
true
really um but yeah I definitely would
not treat all of those as literals as
you do right now I mean it's so error
you know like what if you make a typ of
somewhere I know what if you somewhere
like write list I'm like I don't know
maybe not list bit lost or lost whatever
is like lose ey letter right yeah
um B yeah and I was thinking about the
Parson let me show you something oh I'm
starting to see what you're talking
about now yeah you're just saying like
all of these things that are commonly
referred to might as well make an enum
just so that you could and you basically
just Alias it to like you just say like
uh list equals Sim list and then you
only have one place where you actually
write the literal and then here it's
just is that what you
mean I mean I would not use sim I would
make it slightly more elaborate so it
would make it easier to add more of
those
um how do they call them like entities
commands built-in symbols yeah that kind
of stuff right I would use it slightly
different way um can I just screen share
to show you what I'm on here uh
yeah where am I let me just change to
Dark theme so it doesn't hurt your
eyes
um okay uh let me just add a new file
here pass to
like
that um is it be
off yeah is there way to full screen
this thing oh here we go okay um can I
just increase my font
maybe oh that's not the font I wanted to
[Laughter]
increase uh because I'm not sure it's
big enough for you oh here uh somewhere
here font
let's make it uh I only see
Discord I
see I think I made a mistake then yeah
it's all right um let me go back um okay
um yeah we're good now H that's okay let
me just close this thing okay um so
obviously I would have something for
types like a GU that's we have right now
right uh I would have string you had uh
what is it symbol um integer yep um real
yeah yeah and then list and and custom
wait list is it one of like defined
types uh oh oh oh
um no yeah you're right this is good
yeah yeah so like I would make it up
with the type save as as much as it's
possible symbol can also be a strength I
assume yeah
um or maybe it could be like a string
and also like uuid additional like in
like they do in JavaScript for like
optimization purposes or like maybe or
maybe in context you could have like a
u84 or
64 um but that's minor detail integer
obviously an integer uh real obviously
real I guess uh and in costume um I
assume you you could have have only
strain or you could maintain as again uh
some kind of ID and then you would
attach like a representation like a
textual representation of a thing but
just
optimization something like that sure
um it looks bad already because you
don't need to PA this thing every single
time and it's faster to match those
because you match on enm types first
yeah um kind of cool uh for Parson I
would make a trade like um I'm not sure
what a syntax called us s expression
right expression
parer um something like that and then
you could also Implement like another
thing right like a x expression whatever
like whatever whatever part you want and
then
um ex like and then
basic uh basic constructs in the
language would implement this parser for
instance you would have something like a
list it would Implement F expression
parser and as expression parer would
include essentially it would be a
Constructor um for instance um let me
think about that so that struct list
would okay
all just give me a second um essentially
be construct like a parse it would be FN
parse that returns
self uh and it constructs it oh it
returns self and the rest of bytes like
uh like that I guess
oh and as an input you would have
obviously
input uh something like that I mean you
would you at some point if you want to
make it like to like really fancy thing
you would need to rewrite your pars to
like manual implementation or why
obviously autocomplete type hinting nice
error error types and infix that kind of
stuff right infix operators
too um I
guess um so what it essentially does it
works like a gnome or you could even
Implement inside of the parts function
like using gnome um for instance you
have a I'm gonna like make up your
syntax because I don't know that right
uh say you have like a list of um a one
two whatever um have
join I I have no idea if it's SPID
syntax yeah it's valid I'll tell you if
it's not
yeah um something like that uh then you
have list it would have
say uh like data like vector of uh death
types or maybe more elaborate maybe you
could WP death tyes because yeah you
could have an alas here doesn't matter
um
uh and then you would need to register
list say in main function you would have
um let me do like that you would have a
list of all entities that can be parsed
that would be like a first step right
because you need to for for yourself um
like a part par symbols uh that would be
a vector of dynamic I'm
sorry
Bo of dynamic and expression parser like
that and then you would essentially just
push everything into that into that
Vector like whatever need like whatever
buil-in typee you have right you have L
join whatever right
um I guess it would be better to repes
represent it as like a unique type like
a parer or something like
that
um right and then inside of that you
would have this
things and this whole thing would also
have like just a parse
function um parser
FN part and it would have input as a
slice of btes or
maybe slice B if it's guaranteed to be a
valid UTF string you can do it like that
and then you would have um a vector of
U of entities right maybe not vectoral
hashmap
um yeah right you would need a hashmap
here
asmap you will have a type and
box Dynamic entity and entity is
whatever you can be called or executed
like uh a list is an entity any like
a x of a right is an
entity um X itself is an entity um I
mean you understand right
yeah so what it would allow you to do it
would allow you to easily match
everything you have in
context and your parsers
yeah yeah starting to see the
appeal yeah so um if you wanted to add
something you would almost you would
have
to create a parser like you have parser
default
right default you would like read the
line oh I mean I I don't what using to
read the line right
line like
parer um
equals a par plus parser do parse
something like that and it parse you
would have a list of all entities that
would parse from the uh like a new line
right new cell
right um and then obvously would have
something that represents your context
mhm then you would just get all the data
from par push it into context and
execute the actual expression in
par
like I'm I'm not sure if you can have
like a multi-line when you like add new
stuff and then you execute
something um yeah yeah but that's a
detail
right yeah it's detail but it matters in
this case because then you need to add
to context whatever adds new entities in
your code right if you define some kind
of a new type of new list whatever right
and then user wants to output something
it would be like two steps instead of
one yeah
um so that's essentially how I would do
that and
um if you have a default type right this
thing uh in this thing entity say it
would also be a
trade that's really Dynamic thing right
uh you could have something like
function type that uh maybe not type but
type ID and it would return the um one
of defin types for instance in case of
list
list um what you would do you would
actually costum could
be be count but doesn't matter uh
um in case of
list you could do something like
um Implement entity for
list and for type you would have
something like def type
custom list
to
own
um
wait oops there a
tyer
wait what oh St types not
type yes that kind of thing and when you
register something new in parser because
in parser you have the list of
everything that can be parsed it gets
the type and it adds it to the to the
hashmap uh I mean here obviously we have
a hashmap and then when you PR uh like a
line it will try to match the entity do
something and that would and then when
you match it you can return all the uh
own values down values and sub
values yeah yeah or you can complete the
person right because in case of list
here right
um uh let me WR slightly more elaborate
example here uh you would create some
like parser like register maybe function
like a line like Line new something like
that uh and maybe like
join join right because those are kind
of like built-in functions right line
you mean List what is
line oh not line uh list yeah yeah yeah
okay yeah
um yeah and then when when you try to
parse I mean when when you register uh
what it would do it would call the Ty
function right and it would have inside
of it it would have some kind of hash
map hash map of um of everything right
then you have here
yeah
um there will be death type types
obviously death types should be hash
has partial and equal uh yeah I remember
you had something like that yeah yeah I
I dve those and that's why actually just
as a fun detail uh you can't use float
64 because nans are not equal so you
have to assert that there there's a
crate that allows you to derive no you
can uh yeah you can do that um you just
need to implement your hash yourself oh
yeah it's nothing you need to do that uh
it's not hard because for every single
one of those you just do the hash but
for real you just use the um how was it
called like a equal with um like a error
error thing oh yeah I see it's not
that yeah but I found this I found this
crate that does it too
yeah yeah yeah I me that's totally
fine but yeah I mean it would makes it
make it more extensible I believe yeah
considering that you have a lot of those
like a functions that you can extend on
right and those that can like Nest one
each other right yeah
um oh yeah but Parson so you you don't
get what this thing is um that should be
like that um
so if you say send this thing inside
right
uh join it would match with join and it
would send this bit
like everything to to the
end uh to the uh where is
it to to Parts function and a join so
this one right uh join would consume
everything it
needs and then return the rest if you
say
uh maybe it doesn't work with join but
if you say had equal write something
else right yeah um or maybe something
equals join right uh then it would not
return you anything because it was the
end of it but if you say I have
something then right after that it would
return you the rest as a reference to
the uh to the B slice right so in the
case of the inside join like you finish
the first list and it would give you the
rest of the join give you the list the
second list yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah and then obviously you would need
in parse you would also need a parser
because like a
parser um where is it yeah parser of
type parser and you would have some kind
of precaution here or maybe you could uh
you could return also the vector of like
entities of
um I'm not sure how to deal with those
things you could do cion if there is
some kind of in in standard there's like
a recursion limit for like nested things
M uh then maybe it would preferable way
to do that or you could return a list of
resoled intern like inside
entities
yeah and it could just keep going until
you resolve the resolve the uh resolve
the whole thing
yeah I mean parsers have to be recursive
there's no other
way yeah yeah yeah but you can like turn
the recursion into like iteration you
could return the vector say if pars was
to return a vector of
um of say I mean we can do it like that
but it would be ugly in implementation
so the idea is that parse would not
parse this thing that the rest of stuff
but it would part those things first and
then it would have to supply those in
the same same order uh maybe like
resolve inner
right that kind of thing I think I get
but then it would have to be generic but
yeah yeah I'm not sure how how to do
that because uh I don't know the
standard if there's like a strict limit
for recursion they definitely can do it
if inside you're allowed to change it
but yeah you're allowed to just set the
recursion limit to something new but
uh yeah
yeah because it can be really fancy oh B
bet Trac let me just show you really
fast yeah um I have it in uh in Cloud I
think here uh new
window uh so here I have a little
project here that's uh that's it I
didn't do anything else with
ston oh literally nothing else huh what
does that get you though what what is
like what does it oh let me let me show
you is this that ID you were talking
about by the way is that rust Rover oh
this yeah yeah looks kind of nice yeah
yeah I mean I used to use c yeah it's
kind of fancy because look at that I
have databases here I can like PA here
oh wow this is really meant for like
Enterprise rust people I don't I've
never even touched the
database oh yeah yeah it's really fancy
like like it's not only about databases
they have like a make here uh new you
are whatever I don't need that like you
have doery here you have a get as a a
integral part of the ID you need to
install like a some kind of extension
yeah on top of it um you have a Todo
thing so we don't need that arly to do
three that's cool
yeah nice box the terminal problems get
you also have some pull requests in here
oh here yeah that's nice um
yeah that kind of thing really nice oh
about where gives you I need to go I go
run by the way I I mean you know I'm
streaming right so none of this is
private code or
anything yeah okay cool yeah I just want
to make sure because sometimes my
friends get mad when I'm streaming and
they don't you know
remember no there are like no public
Keys here whatever no private ke yeah so
that's what it looks
like um see if I if I make a curl uh
what should it be like one
127 one it should be hell World thing is
somewhere in here fil to oh
wait
um so that's what I get when I send a
request that's pretty nice that's my
like implementation right yeah yeah so
get the method Ur host that kind of
stuff um request ID that are get with
Tower here so I um I set the request ID
and then I trace then I send it to
Tracer the tracing layer and then I S it
and then I attach this uid to my
response so we can see it here so here
is my request Sol processing request
obviously I can see where it was uh
printed right here uh it's a bit ugly
path because it's getting printed inside
of one crate it's not my crate here for
instance I printed my
crate from inside of my crate right can
you click on that oh obviously can it
the main
70 uh yeah cuz I so every all those
places that I put debug I would just
change it to tracing info
right yeah yeah I'm in tracing debug
tracing info oh yeah okay cool that kind
of stuff yeah and yeah it's kind of
fancy here right
um you can also do tracing um tracing
instrumental I think it allows you to
trace all functions like when the when
function started started execution and
when it ended it execution and you also
get all um uh all function arguments
printed uh state if you have self there
so if you have um for instance if you
had a struct like f mhm and then you
have um I mean let's make it a bit more
practical practical let's say if you had
parser and then you have
uh parse function right uh that returns
whatever uh maybe
result um like that like that we need to
receiver here and maybe some data
whatever R Q8 and all we do we just put
tracing instrument and it will print out
the St if it has some kind of State for
instance
uh
whatever whatever string so we'll print
into console whatever it will print data
it will print the uh Parts you can also
attach the time that it took for exe
execution dang that would print out so
much stuff whenever I try to like when I
put my debug commands it prints out like
thousands and thousands of lines
just because it recurses so much but
this would be useful
though yeah that's the point of it if
you don't want that you can just do like
a skip uh skip all for instance yeah
then it will just print the like when
when it entered and when it when it left
the function execution or you can just
like a I'm not sure about syntax but
something like skip arguments like skip
self and he'll just skip one of
[Music]
those that kind of
stuff yeah that is really nice helps me
a lot in yeah especially for web
stuff yeah yeah definitely I mean it
will also help you with with parer yeah
because many things um and things you
want to track yeah so here I I set up
Trac and subscriber and nor Tracer it's
South TR itself because tracing is a
library that um allows you to do that
stuff but to print Stu you need trace
and subscriber so it's um it's two
crates it's here yeah
those no and I like that it's pretty
printed like like it is I mean that's
pretty nice oh yeah you can set it off
like uh so I have print propr here you
can make it plain I think no it's not
plain simple maybe uh God how is it
called um compact okay we can also add
Target and we can do it
again it looks like that
yeah or we could we could even go one
step further and
um use
Jason if we send it to some external
database like a Lo stash or but so okay
for instance I was thinking about it do
you know who George Hots
is no okay he he he's streams too but he
uh he's writing this uh neural network
library and he he sets an environment
variable for debug and it's like a debug
level so he'll set like debug to four
and then it'll print much more
information than it had he set debug to
one so I guess so I was wondering is
like does tracing or something allow me
to oh
yeah yeah yeah yeah that that's what I'm
doing here because uh what you can do
instead is um let me think CU here I'm
um trying to to get it from the default
environment here right
um so what I can so what is that
actually mean this Gateway equals Trace
Tower HTTP equals Trace what does that
mean okay so it means it's tra Nam so
this trait is called Gateway here we can
see that Gateway it means for the for
the crate Gateway I said the tracing U
like loging level for tra like the
lowest one and for to be also said it to
trace oh okay so I everything else I
just ignore it cuz like what my case
would be sometimes I want to debug the
pattern matcher but sometimes I don't
you know
that's yeah yeah so that's what you
would do um I'm not sure about the
syntax I think it should be like
rust uh
equals uh I think it should be like that
uh and then we just
caret
run that's pretty cool
okay I think uh let me just check so if
I remove this I should not have those
request response messages now
um maybe no I do have should be
something like that maybe Russ C but
yeah
it's something out that uh we can check
it's an EnV
filter um uh where is that oh that's my
just full screen um Rost uh
filter
here uh should
be oh yeah like
that so here is the
synex
um my like
app oh it's rust lock it's not just R
okay
cool
it should be rust
log then maybe car run hopefully like
that yeah nice
cool so in in your case you would write
like um cast three trace and the other
one was wet well let's say no whatever
yeah sure yeah is it only by crate level
though or can I do it for
something more specific than
that oh yeah yeah this the syntax is
really extensible I usually do that for
crate only um here like you can do by
span name you can use it a specific
module in a
crate span name oh you can also specify
the global one so like the global one
one is wor and those are
info um yeah that kind of stuff oh yeah
okay all
right you're starting to sell me on it
before I I got to be honest I was like
I'm you know that's like months away but
now maybe in the next few weeks I'll
I'll actually do it because I'm trying
to make a I'm soon I'm going to add some
features to the pattern matcher and I
imagine I'm going to need
this releas something that's I mean it
doesn't take I mean I mean I can just
copy paste I think I already did just
copy paste this thing into your project
that's it but then I have to change all
the print lines right
no I mean you you can keep using print
lines oh yeah but like to get any to get
any actual tracing
info I need
to change them
right yeah but that's like shift command
F replace all yeah to trace in colon
colon info yeah that's it all right I
that's like 10 10 20 seconds business
yeah yeah it's
uh yeah all right I I might do it I
might do
it yeah looks cool yeah it definitely
seems useful
uh where did I have
it yeah so I'm right now I'm trying to
implement those St things I came back to
them ah those I have it somewhere in um
this
Abomination
whoa
yeah damn dude you really so essentially
just write to sorry you really know rust
bro you really
do this is crazy oh look at
that this yeah so essentially what you
need to do is to implement your own
State machine um
like for
future um yeah so like you manually need
to track the future
State
damn that's a bit that's cool man not
nice because you need to pin
everything yeah when are you releasing
all
this honestly no idea like um I need to
edit some stuff like here on my hop you
can see the
uh you can see that some crates are not
really nice but this one I mean it's
kind of ready I need to add Parts in
here um the issue is that I try to
follow
the time layout where is it oh here this
one and I'm not a big fan of it I man
time what's what's wrong with time yeah
that kind of oh it's awesome the crate
itself is awesome but I think I need to
uh make all my crates kind of similar
because
currently structure and the approach how
I use say trades how I use features is
uh is not
consistent oh
yeah yes so I'm really not happy about
that and I need also to came up with a
way to implement to to service for
browser sounds a bit insane
what does that even mean yeah how do use
a browser as a
service um service service is a thing
from tower Tower is like a middleware
obstruction in rest it's really
nice yeah so this thing's going to ready
bit I need to implement all those middle
vers why didn't you uh just had a
curiosity CU I feel like I push just
like halfhazard but I feel like you're
going about it the way that people
traditionally do like why not just push
every
commit oh a kid I'm experimenting here
because I used to do that for instance
in Sonic mappa yeah um let me just show
you that I accidentally instead of
um I accidentally merged that so look at
this
disgusting
um yeah because I usually got how is it
called it's not it's not mergin it's um
yes squash yeah best one oh yeah yes so
look at look at that thing yeah I used
to do that but yeah not
anymore oh yeah by the way um see thanks
workflow and dependent yeah you can also
set up those man I I made a rust repo
like two years ago and I still get
dependabot annoying things from it uh oh
you you can set the interval to like
monthly or like yearly yeah I know but I
set it up so long ago I should just
delete that repo it's super annoying
yeah I'm I was thinking of setting up CI
but uh right now I feel like my
repository is so beautiful because it
only has like five files in
it so beautiful what's the beautiful
about that I mean I hate when
repositories have like Rook numbers
huh those are rookie numbers I mean no
I'm saying five files it's simple it's
not complicated you don't have to like
some repos I see they have like 20 files
in the root folder and I'm like that's
too much
man like uh yeah man I'm not a big fan
of uh Fin and root but at the same time
I would rather have fin in root than
having like a huge NES in oh yeah for
sure I but that's that's what I'm saying
is that there's one the deepest Nest is
one deep and there's like I don't know
I'm trying to keep my file structure as
simple as possible so that anyone who
wants to learn mathem how Mathematica
Works can approach this and not because
what happened is uh that that thing I
sent you mathx which is like basically
does what I try to do but they have like
a 100,000 lines of code it's just so
much that I don't even know how to learn
how Mathematica works because it's so
complicated so I just that's my thousand
lines of code yeah let me send you this
link this is like the mathx core they're
trying to like make an open source
Mathematica uh how do I do this all
right I'm putting it in
general um okay let me check that oh
yeah wait is it is it one in Python oh
yeah yeah yeah yeah and it's like a
100,000 lines and it's like oh man I
just have no idea I couldn't even
install it it was just such a mess and
look at all these changes copying.txt
authors like why do you do
that future re it's like crazy how much
crap there is
there I guess I guess they also need
that yeah I guess so
but the design goals for my thing is I
think yeah sir the the design goals for
mine are certainly to uh
be like very simple like so simple that
you could see that any idiot can make it
but this is just like I mean that's just
normal Mathematica code
but yeah I'm just yeah because I noticed
that you have basil in here yeah
so but it's like man there's so much
stuff in
there I mean I think it's reasonable
right because you need Lo of stuff with
that yeah
oh yeah because you also need to
like I guess they also have like a MIM
typ parer or something like that yeah
well because they they actually handle
Graphics they do Graphics stuff so you
know that makes it way more
complicated I'm thinking about doing
basic like SVG and rastering stuff but I
don't know this is like like I don't
know man I
mean if someone's doing something like
that I would
rather spent like two three weeks on
reading that code like trying to
understand why they did
that because you know what like you
implemented this your thing yeah and
then at some point you will understand
that I did something wrong and now I
understand why they did it this way yeah
I know I'm very bad about trying to read
other people's
code yeah I don't know I get very
overwhelmed with reading large code
bases yeah I mean I mean you can skape
most most of stom your right I would
just well like for example I was trying
to where where is it it's um where is
their pattern mat let me try to find it
it's
uh compile maybe I mean it's
no it's INE it's in
core uh it's in
core oh better man okay yes sorry I
thought you were talking about the parer
part no yeah uh what is it I thought it
was in core thing I guess compile where
is this
thing oh built in I don't know there's
so much [__] in here just like [__] C
oh pattern. pie so this has some of the
pattern stuff but yeah yeah
yeah
um anyways now there's a rust version
and rust is just better than python so
that's awesome I no it's that's exactly
what I was talking about this
thing what do you
mean does match mat so that you have
like a fully tag Flags right they also
pass in
the the like the context of Ables what
does fully
mean I assume it's if it's Parts is like
internal
elements or less PN
P okay you need to go to match
elements yeah we definitely read this
first well I already implemented pattern
matching so I uh I don't have
to I mean you implemented that but I
mean you implemented that how right
that's the
difference because this I I assume that
this thing is full up to spec right or
they at least trying to get get yeah
yeah but that's not my that's not my
goal like my goal is definitely not to
implement
Mathematica is to implement a logical
subset where people can feel like if you
read this you know exactly how
Mathematica does its [__] but like this
is wait what what's the purpose
then well I don't know I just want to do
it
myself oh so it's like to learn rust I
guess yeah to learn rust to learn
Mathematica that kind of
thing got it because I initially thought
you you like the idea is to implement
the mathematic at least the like some
some version of a spec maybe some subset
of a spec I mean yeah to make
use
yeah it's kind of weird that they use
basil okay but I mean I couldn't even
install this thing I got a pip error so
I want something that people can at
least run you know I feel like these big
projects they get so [__]
bloated yeah but they work like look at
I mean I couldn't install
it I mean that should be some kind of gu
like step by step
somewhere can I like do Brew brew mathx
I don't know I think you
can
I think it's not for Windows though only
M now look at
that seems like possible the PIP install
was broken for
me oh
my well yeah I'm not going to install it
I think I would you know that it exists
no it's a garbage Pro it's a garbage
program I hate Maxs
why man so many
people are contributed like look at that
I think it's all like a couple of people
actually yeah it's this guy
Rocky look at that I mean quite a few
people here yeah 42 contributors that's
pretty
cool I'm mean I fly searching that this
guy knows this back you know
yeah he knows
something yeah I honestly like this
synext more like no it is a better syn
yeah yeah I I
agree but I think parsing is really not
interesting that's why I pi the S
expression he but but Parson is like
half of your job
here well I already yeah I mean if I
wanted
to do
this yeah CU talking with Parson um I
think the biggest thing I did was um
uh I implemented Barson
select statements from SQL and go like
two years
ago they were just of
on fairly
simple but yeah I was just um learning
how uh how go compiler works so I
decided to implement it like a exactly
in a way how your compiler works
yeah I actually it's
interesting it's interesting they
brought that up because I remember
asking GPT random stuff and it said that
Go's compiler is a lot like an algebraic
simplification
thing oh I don't know about that but
it's really easy to follow you can find
it I think it's like
internal uh go
compiler source code
oh yeah here oh it's run time compiler
did go
yeah thing that's the
thing or maybe
not I'm so happy that table works this
is so sick
table list J make matrices
now wait why is list lower case yeah I
know it shouldn't be
but I'll fix it wait do you not have to
wait wait wait a second do you now have
to like manually change list everywhere
yeah but it's
fine [__]
hell all right let's see let's see if I
I can do it I'll do it right
now disgusting honestly
oh
[__] let's let's just blind uh let's
blind try this let's see if it works
there's just no way the test
pass makes sense wa I missed one oh no
no it's cuz my it's actually because my
tests are
wrong God
hold on no I got this this easy this is
Child's
Play and uh we probably need to
change stuff in
here oh hey look at Mat oh here we
go
so
easy just gets easier and easier U send
you a link to like your compiler you
want all right hold on let me see if my
test
pass all right we're getting
closer
uh okay the list
Ops
okay probably have some more
here you imagine if you had uh less
literal in only one
place yeah
well this isn't so
bad let's find this yeah I guess you
would also need to replace rule
right yeah I need to replace replace
itself in rule rule delayed and replace
repeated pretty much all of the
functions that
I have uh which one
failed test rules and
replacement
list now here we
go
nice all right we did
it but I kind of want list lowercase I
don't know
why n maybe that's
better oh that is so cool we have a
matrix
now let's see
uh's see map
first nice that is so
cool all right yeah I I think it's
probably time to go through start
capitalizing some of this stuff
maybe really don't want
to all right maybe I
will for
now
let's do
that okay oh what was I doing I was
implementing
join
okay
um
Jo the thing is if I improve the pattern
matcher I can uh get away with not
needing to do this
but condition seems really difficult to
implement and I kind of just want to
simulate a cellular
autometer
conditions yeah conditions wait uh oh
those things like um return anything and
then square bracket something only if
more than zero kind of thing
yeah
yeah it would be fairly easy I
guess what would be fairly
easy conditions I think it's different I
mean if you had the like a stateful
parser thing
um so all you would need to do is have a
struct that can hold any kind of
expression that can be evaluated to true
or
false
hold
on
uh yeah so it doesn't actually
damn
doesn't
one uh it doesn't
uh even though it sees a match somehow
it's maybe what you could do is you
could collect all the matches and
then find the first one where the
condition
is
true
Ni
no no actually
maybe oh
[__]
does it sound weird if only could create
to EXT like a one word like to
x what is it I don't think so Tower
X I see that it's like extensions it's a
set of extensions for CR for for the
crank gold to I feel like that's a good
name okay cuz I currently have a timx
that is extension for time XD I that's a
extension for time FR right so I thought
call this one
tox I me the internal crates will be
called to scrape and and Tower bra but
the like a GitHub Reaper would be called
tox I guess it makes sense
yeah looks a bit weird I don't
know
Tower
Dash EXT I think it's
fun no it just a s good word oh yeah i'
probably put it that's why it sounds
weird yeah I probably put a dash or
something yeah but I already have a Time
XT published and it looks fine because
the word itself is really
short but to is like it has an r at the
end so like conly make it shorter
ah looks a bit
ugly
for
uh you know what you just uh turned
black
oh cuz it's so
dark
yeah yeah I
guess that's
better the
light got to do something about the
background it's uh it looks so weird
sometimes yeah lickorish
yeah I hope it's not too distracting
it's just I don't like covering up my
code
but okay and you know what it does funny
thing when you put your hands on top of
your head like two triangles yeah I love
it it uh okay it shows all the
background yeah yeah I know
[Music]
um I'm sorry what is this Abomination
line
this I need to reload this stream
because it's it's Pros oh shoot let me
look at my audio quality I think I'm
good yeah right what's happening here
why do you copy Vector into vector or is
it not
vector oh I don't know let's see does it
work without
it I don't know I'm not done writing
this I'm trying to figure out how
partition's going to work
um length x is uh partition minus three
oh you know about e
tools I hope you
do
yeah
see
right you can Implement custom debug for
a list so you don't end up to with us um
long chain of nested stuff in an
array yeah
oh but tables hold all I wonder if
that
h
for
um yeah we got to go oh yeah no worries
see
man if you suddenly design to reite your
barer I'm happy to help yeah I'm
considering it it's a lot of work though
considering it works somewhat right
now but yeah
sure kind of yeah I mean if you want to
make it fancy right you have to do that
definitely
yeah anyway till next time yeah for sure
thanks a lot see
you just argu
nonstandard
oh I didn't see
that
food
hungry
I want to know all the
functions all
6,000 I want to know all of them that
we're in version
one
I wouldn't put it past them if they
had
what
yeah
okay is there an about
function
e
for
should I do
this
for
[Music]
return all let's started doing the
scripting
okay
whatever
no
wait why is there no docks on this
[__] oh that's what
we
that didn't work at
all
what
the
hell
for
there you
Capital
yeah y y
y
okay
bro
what
no wait we want section
9 oh evidently it did return
something that's
cool
it's pretty cool see will it
work
nice all I think this function works now
let's
try oh that's
sick all right uh table we
know module let's see when module was I
bet it's version [__] one
bro eight module was had it pretty
recently
huh it's pretty
neat
let's try it with a dead one something
that doesn't
exist
it's pretty good work kind of fast
too all
right
let's see if this it
works oh
uh
where's a rifle
oh
where is it
though
for
where the hell are
they freak
smiley
for
that's [__]
sick that is so
convenient well that one just doesn't
exist
but
oh I
see oh that's so
cool wow
oh man that's so so
cool
um control that copy
this let's see you next
time
okay
for
all right this is kind of a fun side
part I never do stuff at
this
uh
it's easier to use rust though just
because we have full
[Music]
control
okay I think where's the path
to wait wait that's
not it's
almost
damn I'm getting
hungry is my mic quiet now yeah see my
mic is
quiet
okay should be better
now
what
we can scrape it afterward or we can uh
parse it afterwards we just want
to
e
let's try to slam
him
for
[Music]
bro
let's see
is that what it
is I feel like I'm going to give up on
that
how is it so hard to just download a
whole bunch of
files right let's
try
I feel like something should be
happening
should we wait this is so
boring let's look at some of
these oh my God it's such a big web
page
for
dude it should not be this
annoying
got to give up on
it
this been four years
ago this seems pretty
good
old as [__]
up
we're going back to the old
one
I say we just run this
thing
it's totally
crazy
that's pretty
cool
should we try
it
for
what are the what are
the cool who is this
guy
all right let's kill the we're only on a
so we'll save time if we just kill this
thing
um I feel like we can just remove
this
bro I just want to know which [__]
functions came first so we know what to
do cuz
uh
that's that [__] I don't
like this say [__] I don't like all
right
cool
let's try
16 no way that is so
sweet
dude this is sick
Bro oh [__] that's not what I
wanted oh and it and it didn't overwrite
them that's so
nice
cool very nice we're downloading all
7,000 wfr language
functions let's see if one of them
doesn't
exist down left T Vector what the [__]
is this
stuff
all
right that's very
nice
for
wow we're almost done I'm so glad I went
the parallel route and found this sick
ass package
this thing is
sweet
wow that just
worked way too
well and all the ones that failed it
just failed that is so
good wow one of my favorite packages
download a bunch of URLs and he did it
well okay cool
um uh R script that takes a file path
parses the
HTML then extract
the
El
okay so wait
um
well what is that
called
I hate that they do
that scrape oh never mind but I do
dislike
that
I don't think that's right oh
so what do you exactly do we
need
for
have the input be a
directory
oh man it's so productive to do this it
would have been so
annoying five years ago to do
this are we no long well I'll keep it
open
for
this is good ass code
too all right I'm down to just run this
[__] wait hold on yeah I'm down to run
this and
then um
if this works I'm going to be so
shocked
that is so
cool
uh
I got a pee
I feel like this is the one case where I
want
Julia Julia is great for d data science
for
sure I prefer
it over Python and
pandas and I think I prefer it over
polers
too yeah
except this is just like the common
thing inj just get all this
[__] what is wrong
bro
no not
list
how is 110 not out yet someone tell me
that I want
come on holy
[__]
okay
cool
um
h
God damn
it
hello hi what are you doing nothing
streaming I'm coming cool
huh
cool I can't hear you
okay I'm coming all
right are you happy
yep all right love you I love you
too I'm hungry yeah me
too okay can you fix where we're going
to eat
clover chipot Chipotle I don't know hold
on uh all right I'll see you in a bit
okay bye
bye
oh
sweet
nice wait actually we want to do
this okay cool so now we
have
cool now we have
it abs
accuracy
e
that was shocking how
easy what is engineering form
hilarious is that still around
that's so
funny
wow there are 500 functions in the
original
Mathematica
well that could have that went better
than I ever could have expected that was
amazing
all right so I think what we should
do what's going on
here
is do we get to mutate
these
h
all right let's
try
[__] oh
wait
nice
let's see partition was definitely
in
what the hell is that
for
okay well let's uh at least say that we
resolve that
[Music]
issue well we did a lot
today
what is
it
oh wait we should add a
test oh wait this isn't even right
though oh because it stays in
evaluated uh yeah wait hold
on
can we try something
simpler okay what was
that
yeah
I don't
know
let's add the
test
oh for [__] sake
um I think we can do
this no you can't do that
wait why
not
um oh we we have to yeah I know
why
yeah we need to figure that
out
nice
Okay cool so now we should be able to do
all the cool stuff that I wanted to do
for a long
time okay so now I should be able to
run
for
uh
maybe
nice I could just see Steven wolf from
just sitting there you know [__]
writing this stuff
out
oh
man
e
all right yeah I guess that's a good
point to end it
peace